on May 31st 2011 in tact Financial
Corporation announced that it is
acquiring the Canadian operations of
Paris based AXA group for two point six
billion dollars in Sachs said the deal
is expected to generate an internal rate
of return of 20% and will see the
insurers direct premiums written
increase by two billion dollars to more
than 6.5 billion
cementing the ensures strong position in
the Canadian PNC insurance market
ILS TV spoke with Louie Gallo president
of intact insurance about the
acquisition and what it means for intact
and other Canadian insurers well you
know I think I think we're buying we
bought a company that has a lot of
similarity similarities with us the same
vision about the future same a lot of
the same values regarding the way we
should do business great financial
performance so we were I would say two
of the the best company in the market so
joining force will make us I would say
an even an even stronger company so this
is I would say that I think it's gonna
it's gonna have an impact for sure on
the Canadian market I think it's gonna
bring the other players to be even
better also so I think it's going to
create a lot of dynamic a great positive
dynamic in the industry we've been
saying for a while that there was going
to be consolidation in the market and
and this is one of the what's one of the
one of the signs that that that
constellation is happening there there's
probably going to be more I will see but
but again I think it puts us in an
excellent position in joining as I said
to company that has similar a lot of
similarities and a lot of the same
vision intact is preparing for the
integration
having formed eleven task forces
comprised of management from various
departments at both intact and AXA
Canada in order to plan for a seamless
integration for brokers and customers
Louis says in tax broker distribution
will not be changed there is no there's
not going to be any change in our
distribution to the contrary I think it
kind of increased our
makes us present in some areas that we
were not and and and makes the our
product available to consumer through
more brokers in the market so so so that
so that's why I think I think we have no
intention of changing our broker that
the broker we're dealing with with an
attack or with AXA and we will do that
as soon as a transition as possible
that's why we're working at integrating
just due to business to make sure that
for brokers it will be as seamless as
possible during the transition period
through the acquisition of AXA Canada in
tax reach will expand Louis explains
that there are different types of risk
diversification possible because of the
transaction the key factors of that
acquisition or the what was really
interesting is that it gives really
intact the possibility of doing quite a
great diversification of risk and that
diverse diversification just doesn't
come geographically yes we are improving
our position in BC we are we are
improving our position in Quebec we are
improving our position in the Atlantic
the other aspect of the diversification
that also key is that acts as more
commercial line business in percentage
than us they were they are in commercial
line and in things that we have always
or we would that we hadn't that we're
not there before because mainly because
of expertise and thus also in purchasing
and acquiring AXA we also acquire a lot
of great expertise that comes with very
healthy portfolio and a chance also to
diversify our business more into
commercial line so geographic
diversification for sure but what most
importantly expertise and product divert
the diversification intact is now
waiting for the deal to be approved by
regulators but Louis says there's plenty
to do in the meantime so yes so regard
or approval should should usually takes
between it's a bit difficult it's it's
the summer and between 60 and 120 days
also but I think it I think it's a it's
it's the time that we have now to
discuss look prepare all the work that's
gonna have to be done when we when we
have the Orioles approval and there's a
lot of work to be done I mean there's a
lot of stuff to to reconcile there's a
lot of thing to evaluate the operation
is read to try to keep the best of both
operations and try to make it one at the
end of the day so so our expectation is
that in within 18 months we will have
one system IT system one platform we
will share locations all across the
country we will have the same time the
same salary and benefit package for
employees so so really this is this is I
would say the the eye light of the of
the transition there